What is a smart home? This straightforward inquiry has various answers, contingent upon who you inquire. To put it plainly, a "smart home" is a house equipped with various gadgets that automate errands ordinarily taken care of by people. Some are incorporated with the structure of the home itself and some are added later. Homeowners operate these home appliances using the luxury of artificial intelligence as well as embedded systems. For instance, lights and other home appliances like heater, AC unit, TV etc. can utilize less energy by shutting down when not being used, and seamlessly turn them on for use with less or no work by the homeowners. The main reason behind making a smart home is the possibility to save energy and the cost associated with it. There has been an undergoing effort to control several home appliances with remote controllers and mobile applications. Although these technologies provide some degree of convenience to users, they also fall a little short as remote controllers and smartphones are not guaranteed to be at an arm's length at all times. Some users, who repeatedly either lose the remote controllers or forget where the controllers are located, voice their frustration with the technology. Apart from that, users have limited freedom in configuring the system. For instance, the user can not add new home appliances as they are limited to the number of buttons on the remote controllers. In order to solve this problem and relieve the agony associated with it, we propose using voice commands to control home appliances. This way users would not have to worry about the whereabouts of the remote controllers or their smartphones not being at an arm's length. Your voice is with you at all times! Moreover, users will have all the freedom needed to configure the system as voice commands are endless. As a result, we looked into using speech/voice recognition to control home appliances. We strongly believe that voice-command smart home applications are indeed reliable as well as convenient. 


